- Serialization is a much criticized feature of Java,
mainly because it's attack prone.
Let's finish up this course,
talking a bit about serialization in Java
and ways to mitigate the risk.
First of all we need to talk about, what is it?
Serialization is a mechanism for class data access
as well as construction that lies outside
our normal getters and setters,
as well as our normal construction routines.
It bypasses all field level access controls.
And this is by design because usually we don't want those
to get in the way when we're de-serializing data
as it's coming in.
Now, the bad part about this is that
because we're bypassing access controls,
input can be injected maliciously
into our serialized data classes.
The bad part about all of this
is that we can't actually avoid serialization
in most applications.
Many web applications, for instance,
required de-serialization as the data comes in,
and serialization as the data comes out.
So we can't really avoid it, even though we may like to,
from a security perspective.
Now, mitigation of serialized data risks
really is a multi-step and a multi-variate process.
First and foremost,
don't serialize sensitive classes.
Don't even allow them to be considered available
for serialization across your enterprise.
You can use things like code comments and such
to make sure that no one serializes them
in the future.
In addition, if your class contains sensitive data,
but you need the class to be serialized,
you need to guard that sensitive data
to make sure that it is not leaked
or worse yet maliciously injected.
Really the strategy here is
to treat de-serialization as object construction.
So if you go back to what we talked about
about good object construction practices,
you'll remember that we talked about cloning objects
as they come in and treating them as immutable.
And these are things that you really should do
when you de-serialize an object
in that construction routine.
This will help guard against remote sources changing data,
as you're de-serializing it into your interface.
If possible, use the built-in security manager,
when dealing with serialized data.
This just gives you an added layer of protection,
but it's one that many Java developers
don't even understand exists.
I encourage you, if you are dealing with serialization
to look at security manager and see how easy it is
to add into your methods.
And finally at this point really should be unsaid,
but we need to say it anyway
is we need you to filter un-trusted data.
And since you can't ever trust data that is input
into your system from an external source,
you really should be filtering all data.
And this goes back to input validation,
as well as using immutable objects practices
to keep your system safe.